Sports
New Zealand's Adam Hall and Corey Peters finish run at 2013 IPC Alpine World Championships
Friday March 1, 2013
With the IPC Alpine World Championships officially ending Wednesday with the conclusion of the national team non-medal friendly competition a day after the competition's official closing ceremony, New Zealand's Adam Hall and Corey Peters have completed their run. Their country did not compete in the team competition as they did not have enough skiers to form a team.
With their first event the second race of the competition, Hall finished ninth in the men's standing Super-G with a time of 1:16.65, 4.16 seconds off the winning time set by Austrian Markus Salcher. Peters finished the Super-G with a time of 1:18.95 in the men's sitting group for a 22 place finish in a field of 25 skiers.
Hall had his best finish at the Championships on the third day of competition when he earned a bronze medal in the Slalom. Peters did not fair as well, earning a Did Not Finish (DNF) during his second run in the Slalom and consequently not ranking.
In the Super Combined, Hall finished ninth with a combined run time of 1:49.87, 7.43 seconds slower than first place finisher Austrian Matthias Lanzinger. Peters's problems continued, as he earned a DNF during his first run.
Peters finished tenth in the Giant Slalom, with a combined run time of 2:37.73, 21.93 seconds slower than Japanese gold medalist Taiki Morri. Hall skipped the event.
Despite New Zealand's small size, the country has a history of doing well at the Winter Paralympics. Most recently, the country saw success when Hall won a gold medal in the men's standing event at the 2010 Winter Paralympics in Vancouver.

Sports
Austria wins friendly team competition at end of 2013 IPC Alpine World Championships
Thursday, February 28, 2013
The IPC Alpine World Championships wrapped up yesterday in La Molina, Spain with a friendly, non-medal counting team event won by Austria. The winner was tabulated based on the fastest score for a visually impaired skier on the team, a female skier on the team, and a male skier on the team. The Austrian team included Markus Salcher, Roman Rabl, and Claudia Loesch for times counted, with Philipp Bonadimann, Thomas Grochar, and Martin Wuerz also competing. The team event included ten teams representing eight countries, with the United States and Canada having two teams each and 54 skiers competing.
The United States team 1 came in second with Tyler Walker, Mark Bathum, and Alana Nichols times counting, and Heath Calhoun, Ralph Green, and Allison Jones also belonging to the team. Russia came in third with Ivan Frantseva, Alexandr Alyabyev, and Mariya Papulova having their scores counted. Hosts Spain finished last with Jon Santacana, Oscar Espallargas, and Ursula Pueyo having their times counting, and Gabriel Gorce and Nathalie Carpanedo also members of the Spanish team.
The next major competition ahead of the 2014 Winter Paralympics is the test event in Sochi, Russia in March of this year.

Sports
France finishes 2013 IPC Alpine World Championships on top of medal ladder
Tuesday, February 26, 2013
On the final day of individual competition at the 2013 IPC Alpine World Championships in La Molina, Spain, concluded today with the Giant Slalom, France pulled ahead of Austria to sit atop of the medal ladder with seven gold medals, two silver medals, and three bronze medals to Austria's seven gold medals, one silver medal, and three bronze medals. Canada earned the most overall medals at the World Championships with fourteen total medals, two more than France.
France's medals today included a gold by Marie Bochet in the women's standing event. Bochet captured all five individual gold medals available in her group at these World Championships. Vincent Gauthier-Manuel also earned a gold for France, in the men's standing group.
Claudia Loesch earned a gold for Austria in the women's sitting group. It was Austria's only medal on the day.
Canada's medals today included a silver by Viviane Forest and her guide Chloe Lauzon-Gauthier in the women's visually impaired group, a silver by Mac Marcoux and his guide BJ Marcoux in the men's visually impaired, a bronze by Chris Williamson and his guide in the same group, a bronze by Kimberly Joines in the women's sitting group, and a bronze by Alexandra Starker in the women's standing group.
Spain, who had not earned a medal since the second day of competition, increased their medal count by one when Jon Santacana and his guide Miguel Galindo Garces earned their third gold of the competition after two competitions in a row where they earned Did Not Finishes (DNF) during their second runs.
The final day of skiing saw 117 skiers start, with only 72 getting ranked at the end. 28 skiers earned DNFs during the first run, and nine earned DNFs during their second runs. Five did not start the first run, and one did not start their second run. Two 

Sports
Austria regains medal leadboard after fourth competition day of 2013 IPC Alpine World Championships
Tuesday, February 26, 2013
Yesterday, following the Super Combined event at the 2013 IPC Alpine World Championships, Austria took the lead again in the medal count having earned six total gold medals across four days of competition. France is tied with Austria in the overall medal count.
Austria's medal tally yesterday included a gold by LW11 classified Claudia Loesch in the women's sitting event, a gold by LW4 classified Matthias Lanzinger in the men's standing event, and a bronze by LW11 classified Philipp Bonadimann in the men's sitting event.
Following her gold medal winning, Loesch told the media she was super happy she won, and she had a really good slalom run. She went on to say she usually finishes in second and this was a surprise for her.
France's medal count increased with a gold by LW6/8-2 Marie Bochet in the women's standing, and a bronze by LW4 classified Cedric Amafroi-Broisat in the men's standing.
Spain's vision impaired skier Jon Santacana, who won Spain's only two medals in the competition, failed to finish his second run in the Super Combined. Following the race, he was visibly upset. He had finished the first run in first place by a tenth of a second ahead of eventual gold medalist Chris Williamson and guide Robin Femy of Canada. Williamson hugged silver medalist Miroslav Haraus of Slovakia, and Santacana when Santacana and guide Miguel Galindo Garces returned to the finishing area after Santacana's fall. Spain's other entrant in the men's visually impaired Super Combined event, Gabriel Gorce and guide Arnau Ferrer, finished three thousandths of a second out of medal contention with a combined run time of 1:47.93. The bronze medalist, Ivan Frantseva and guide German Agranovskii of Russia, had a combined run time of 1:47.90.
At the finish of each competitor's second run, most are requested to go to doping control to insure they are not taking any banned substance. The 2013 IPC Alpine World Championships are scheduled to continue today.

Sports
France leads medal count after third competition day of 2013 IPC Alpine World Championships
Monday, February 25, 2013
Yesterday in La Molina, Spain on the third day of competition at the IPC Alpine World Championships, slalom gold medal winning French skiers Marie Bochet and Vincent Gauthier-Manuel assisted in putting France in the medal count lead. This brought the total number medals won by French skiers to eight.
New Zealand, with only two skiers competing, earned its first medal of the competition when Adam Hall won a bronze in yesterday's slalom event. His teammate Corey Peters finished his first run in the slalom but notched a Did Not Finish (DNF) for his second run and did not rank.
Spain moved down the medal table after their medal favorite, Jon Santacana and guide Miguel Galindo Garces, failed to finish his second run in the slalom. Other Spanish skiers also failed to perform yesterday with wildcard entry women's sit-skier Nathalie Carpanedo and men's sit-skier Oscar Espallargas earning a DNF during their first runs on a day that saw thirty-six skiers earn DNFs on their initial run down the course. Men's visually impaired skier Gabriel Gorce and guide Arnau Ferrer were disqualified in the first run for missing gate 61. Standing LW2 classified skier Ursula Pueyo finished ninth and last in her group.
Yesterday was originally scheduled to be a day off for skiers, but the slalom event was cancelled Saturday due to poor conditions. Today is scheduled to be the Super Combined event.

Economy
Venezuela opens granite processing facility in Bolivar
Monday, February 18, 2013
Venezuela's government has opened a granite processing plant in the state of Bolivar, with the intention of providing about 25% of the granite required nationwide.
Ricardo Menendez, vice president of the Productive Economic Area, said Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has yearned for the creation of this project to empower Venezuelan construction. Granito Bolivar is reportedly the most modern Venezuelan granite plant, not consuming community water or electricity, and is also the largest, with a daily capacity to supply enough material for use in construction of about 820 houses.
Menendez said, "These granite blocks are the natural resources of our country, are the wealth we have as a country and often [some] simply decided to remove this richness from our country and take them to other countries"((es)).
According to Menendez, with the help of a state plan, Venezuela intends to exploit its 40,000 million cubic meters or more of granite reserves, generating a set of factories. "[T]he central theme is that these plants, all these factories, are for the construction of socialism; that means using our potential, develop the value chain within the country and of course that yields benefits from the point of view of the production system's organization.... [Granito] Bolivar is not only the vision that historically we had of exposing richness, but the industries, basic industries we have, that level of our workers in the basic industries and in addition the development of the potential we have in the state"((es)).
For the construction of the plant, supplied by 23 quarries, the government of Bolivar provided about 30 million bolivares (US$4.7 million) and the national government 802.3 million (US$3 million). Bolivar reportedly has reserves of about 40,000 million tons of red, black, pink and white granite, sufficient for domestic demand for 200 years.

Economy
United States economy shrinks by 0.1% in last quarter of 2012
Friday, February 1, 2013
The United States economy shrank by 0.1% in the last three months of 2012 according to official statistics released on Wednesday by the United States Department of Commerce. The contraction in the economy comes after growth of 3.1% in the previous quarter (July to September) and is the first contraction since the 2009 recession.
Economic growth is thought to have fallen due to cuts in government spending, including a 22% cut in the defence budget being the largest decline in defence spending since 1972. Economic analysts had expected a 1.1% in growth according to polling conducted by the news agency Reuters and that none of them had predicted a contraction in the economy.
Export levels were at their lowest for almost four years, this may be due to the recession in Europe and a decline in growth in China. However, there were increases in consumer spending and investments which shows that there may be other problems with the economy and that the "fiscal cliff" issues of December did not worry markets too much.

Economy
Australian Manns Mitre 10 hardware store closes after rent dispute
Sunday, January 27, 2013
Wednesday, an over-90-year-old Manns Mitre 10 hardware store, run by Alex P Mann Pty Ltd, closed until further notice after a rent dispute in Port Adelaide, South Australia. The rent dispute involved $315,060.70 of rent for months of September 2012 to January 2013 unpaid to the landlord, Fourteen Sails Pty Ltd. The site was distrained. The store had to fire about 40-50 employees without a warning in advance.
The store was closed three days before Australia Day, January 26, Saturday.
The store administrator, Tim Clifton, said they had to ring the workers out of the blue: "I was advised the landlord had distrained for unpaid rent over the business and that left the directors in the position where the business was untenable. I presume at this stage trading was poor and the company just didn't have the money to pay the rent. ... Unfortunately they had to terminate their employment this morning and we've rung them all. We'll do our best to get them their entitlements under the government schemes, and we calculate what they're owed in the next few days and hopefully get that underway for them. ... It's a sad day. It's a sign of the times isn't it. Things are tough out there."
Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union state secretary Dave Kirner said workers were not allowed to collect their personal belongings left inside of the store: "I spoke with a worker who said the locks have been changed, they were asked to leave and all their personal belongings are in there".
On Saturday, Wikinews took photos of the documents available at the store entrance. The rent dispute details and an inventory were available for everyone to read. During the ten minutes of taking photos, around seven people visited the closed entrance and read the documents a first time. One of them commented, "oh hey, Bunnings will be stronger".
The store owner, Jarred Spearman, reported negotiations ongoing with the landlord and said he would "hopefully try to work [our] way out of this ... We are pretty lucky to have the customers and staff we had".
Port Adelaide Mayor Gary Johanson said the loss of the store is a significant loss as Port Adelaide is being redeveloped: "Their staff were extremely good, the service levels were high, the store was always well stocked and it was a great example of a family business. That will be a great loss to the Port." "The landlord is not at fault here. The landlord is acting within their rights. ... This is the sort of thing we cannot afford to lose if we're serious about the Port being redeveloped. This is not a multinational company. This is a franchise of a bigger company but it is a family franchise and it employs a lot of staff. The staff that they employ are local people and they're employing large amounts of staff in relation to their turnover. We need to take stock of what local businesses we have left and say, how can we ensure they stay with us?"

Economy
British 4G mobile spectrum auction underway
Friday, January 25, 2013
The auction for the mobile spectrum capable of carrying 4G mobile broadband services in the United Kingdom got underway on Thursday. The auction process is expected to take several weeks and will take place online. Mobile network operators are expected to roll out services by July.
4G mobile network technology will bring faster downstream speeds than the current 3G connections allowing for data-intensive surfing on the move such as video streaming. Some mobile users have criticised the industry regulator Ofcom for having taken a long time to start rolling out the 4G technology, with the United Kingdom falling behind many other European countries.
EE (Everything Everywhere) launched the UK's first 4G network in a number of cities last year, however many people complained due to them being the only service provider. The bidders include the current main UK mobile network operators '97 Vodafone UK, Telefonica UK (O2), Everything Everywhere and Hutchinson 3G (3) '97 as well as British Telecommunications.
Ed Richards, the Chief Executive of Ofcom, said of the auction: "It will release the essential raw material for the next wave of mobile digital services. This will change the way we consume digital media in both our personal and working lives and deliver significant benefits to millions of consumers and businesses across the country."
Each bidder is competing with one another to win combinations of the 28 spectrum lots available from the 800MHz and 2.6GHz spectrum bands.

Economy
UK economy shrinks by 0.3% in fourth quarter of 2012
Friday, January 25, 2013
The United Kingdom economy shrank by 0.3% in the fourth quarter of 2012 according to figures released today by the Office for National Statistics, increasing the likelihood of a triple-dip recession. This comes after the 0.9% growth seen in the preceding quarter which is believed to have been due to the Olympic Games. The Office for National Statistics has said economic output remained flat throughout 2012.
The British economy would have to contract in this quarter in order for there to be a recession, but hopes of positive figures are fading after a snow-hit Britain to the beginning of 2013 with figures suggesting a 3500m a day being lost in output.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said, "We can either run away from those problems or we can confront them. And I'm determined to confront them so we can go on creating jobs for the people of this country".
The construction sector rose by 0.3%, however, the production in the industrial and manufacturing sector fell by 1.8% and 1.5% respectively.

Science
Cold as ice: Wikinews interviews Marymegan Daly on unusual new sea anemone
Tuesday, January 21, 2014
In late 2010 a geological expedition to Antarctica drilled through the Ross Ice Shelf so they could send an ROV under it. What they found was unexpected: Sea anemones. In their thousands they were doing what no other species of sea anemone is known to do — they were living in the ice itself.
Discovered by the ANDRILL [Antarctic Drilling] project, the team was so unprepared for biological discoveries they did not have suitable preservatives and the only chemicals available obliterated the creature's DNA. Nonetheless Marymegan Daly of Ohio State University confirmed the animals were a new species. Named Edwardsiella andrillae after the drilling project that found it, the anemone was finally described in a PLOS ONE paper last month.
ANDRILL lowered their cylindrical camera ROV down a freshly-bored 270m (890ft) hole, enabling it to reach seawater below the ice. The device was merely being tested ahead of its planned mission retrieving data on ocean currents and the sub-ice environment. Instead it found what ANDRILL director Frank Rack of the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, a co-author of the paper describing the find, called the "total serendipity" of "a whole new ecosystem that no one had ever seen before".
The discovery raises many questions. Burrowing sea anemones worm their way into substrates or use their tentacles to dig, but it's unclear how E. andrillae enters the hard ice. With only their tentacles protruding into the water from the underneath of the ice shelf questions also revolve around how the animals avoid freezing, how they reproduce, and how they cope with the continuously melting nature of their home. Their diet is also a mystery.
E. andrillae is an opaque white, with an inner ring of eight tentacles and twelve-to-sixteen tentacles in an outer ring. The ROV's lights produced an orange glow from the creatures, although this may be produced by their food. It measures 16–20mm (0.6–0.8in) but when fully relaxed can extend to triple that.
Genetic analysis being impossible, Daly turned to dissection of the specimens but could find nothing out of the ordinary. Scientists hope to send a biological mission to explore the area under the massive ice sheet, which is in excess of 600 miles (970km) wide. The cameras also observed worms, fish that swim inverted as if the icy roof was the sea floor, crustaceans and a cylindrical creature that used appendages on its ends to move and to grab hold of the anemones.
NASA is providing funding to aid further research, owing to possible similarities between this icy realm and Europa, a moon of Jupiter. Biological research is planned for 2015. An application for funding to the U.S. National Science Foundation, which funds ANDRILL, is also pending.
The ANDRILL team almost failed to get any samples at all. Designed to examine the seafloor, the ROV had to be inverted to examine the roof of ice. Weather conditions prevented biological sampling equipment being delivered from McMurdo Station, but the scientists retrieved 20–30 anemones by using hot water to stun them before sucking them from their burrows with an improvised device fashioned from a coffee filter and a spare ROV thruster. Preserved on-site in ethanol, they were taken to McMurdo station where some were further preserved with formaldehyde.

Science
Study shows shopping cart injuries rise after US safety standards set
Friday, January 24, 2014
Over two decades, on average every 22 minutes a child in the United States experiences an injury from a shopping cart-related accident that requires emergency room attention and this type of injury has increased significantly, according to a new study released this month by the journal Clinical Pediatrics.
The number of shopping cart-related injuries to children increased over the course of the study period, which was between 1990 and 2011, and also increased since the United States first set safety standards in 2004. The study notes that an average of 66 children a day required emergency care as a result. According to the study, that is an estimated 24,000 children annually. The study looked at over a half a million cases over the two decades.
Researchers also found that 70.4 percent of those injuries were from falls from the shopping carts. The study also documents the other ways children are commonly injured including collisions, cart tip overs, and trapped limbs. The most likely type of injury is a head injury and accounts for 78.1 percent of emergency care cases involving shopping carts.
The study was carried out by Dr. Gary Smith, director of the Center for Injury Research and Policy at Nationwide Children’s Hospital, and his colleagues. Smith said the current voluntary standards for shopping cart safety are not adequate. "Not only have the overall number of child injuries associated with shopping carts not decreased since implementation of the safety standards, but the number of concussions and closed head injuries is actually increasing," he said. "It is time we take action to protect our children by strengthening shopping cart safety standards with requirements that will more effectively prevent tip-overs and falls from shopping carts."
Shopping cart-related accidents happen to both young and old. Chris Strickland, 18, was working in a Home Depot in Anchorage, Alaska earlier this month when he saw a shopping cart falling over and in quick order stopped the cart with one hand and saved a baby with his other arm. And in Shanghai, China, a women died last year as a result of a runaway shopping cart.
According to Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio, parents can follow several guidelines in order to reduce the danger of shopping cart-related accidents.

Science
Jade Rabbit lunar rover declared lost
Wednesday, February 12, 2014
Chinese state news today declared Jade Rabbit, China's first moon rover, irreparably damaged.
The Chang'e 3 lander, the first lunar lander for 37 years and of the third nationality, touched down and launched Jade Rabbit in December. Jade Rabbit was designed to spend three months seeking out natural resources but has not functioned since a fault was discovered on January 25.
The probes have to shut down for two weeks each month to survive the "lunar night", during which surface temperature drops to -180 °C or less. The first lunar night of the mission was weathered successfully but Chinese scientists suspected the rover had failed on the 25th when the second night rolled in. Communication could only be attempted when the night ended on Monday, but reactivation efforts failed and the rover is now confirmed derelict.
State-owned Xinhua news agency blamed the fault on "the complicated lunar surface environment". Only the US and ex-USSR had previously landed rovers on the moon, with China and the States fueling renewed interest in Earth's natural satellite as a possible source of minerals.

Science
Researchers survey planet-sized space weather explosions at Venus
Saturday, February 22, 2014
Space scientists located on three continents have published a survey of hot flow anomalies (HFAs) observed at the bow shock of Venus, in Journal of Geophysical Research on Tuesday. HFAs, discontinuities in the solar wind, were found to have much larger repercussions for Venus than for Earth.
While the common HFA space weather phenomenon is deflected by the Earth's magnetosphere, Venus does not have such a reliable protection against the constant solar wind. Venus's ionosphere is generally in a sensitive balance with the outside pressure from the solar wind, and is regularly disrupted by the anomalies.
The survey was conducted using data collected during roughly three Venusian days (about two Earth years) by the European Space Agency's Venus Express, expanding on an initial case study of a HFA at Venus published in 2012. "Not only are they gigantic," said Glyn Collinson of NASA, the first author of the papers published in 2012 and 2014, "[b]ut as Venus doesn’t have a magnetic field to protect itself, the hot flow anomalies happen right on top of the planet. They could swallow the planet whole." Seven events were observed during the surveyed time.

Science
Researchers identify protein responsible for malaria transmission
Tuesday, February 25, 2014
Two groups of researchers have independently identified the the protein responsible for malaria transmission to mosquitoes in studies published in journal Nature on Sunday.
The scientists found a direct relationship between the protein AP2-G's with malaria gametocytes (male and female sexual forms) production, which is necessary for the transmission. Only the sexual forms infect mosquitoes and sexual reproduction occurs within the mosquito digestive tract.
Malaria is caused by Plasmodium parasites. The initially separate teams looked at different plasmodium species. One, an international group led by Manuel Llinás of Penn State University in the US, examined Plasmodium falciparum, which is responsible for the worst form of human malarial infections; the other, led by UK scientists Oliver Billker from the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute in England and Andy Waters from University of Glasgow in Scotland, looked at Plasmodium berghei, which infects rodents.
The P. falciparum group was kickstarted by research in Spain which found different organisms from the same strain with identical DNA had varying levels of AP2-G, with a strong correlation to their levels of sexual activity. The more AP2-G, the higher the rate of gametocyte formation. Researchers in England, later also drawn into the international team, analyzed the genomes of two mutated strains of P. falciparum which were both unable to form gametocytes. They found that the gene responsible for producing the AP2-G protein was the only common non-functioning gene.
The international team found found the AP2-G protein catalyzes the transmission by activating a relevant gene set in the parasite.
Both teams confirmed the finding by gene therapy — both by adding the gene into a mutated strain and observing its ability to form gametocytes, and the other way round.
The parasites exist in a mosquito, then in a human, and require subsequent transmission for the parasite to spread. The transmission can only happen through gametocytes. The parasite triggers formation of the sexual gametocytes into the human's circulatory system every two days in small quantities — not wasting energy on the process at the dry time of year when few mosquitoes are available — but little was known about the mechanism.
Dr. Oliver Billker commented on the potential of getting the transmission of malaria under control, unlike the existing focus on addressing the phrase causing the clinical symptoms, "Current drugs treat patients by killing the sexless form of the parasite in their blood — this is the detrimental stage of the malaria lifecycle that causes illness. However, it is now widely accepted that to eliminate malaria from an entire region, it will be equally important to kill the sexual forms that transmit the disease."
The researchers hope to continue research toward drugs to prevent the transmission of the disease. The science was funded by groups including UK research councils, the Spanish government, the U.S. National Institutes of Health, and the European Commission.

Politics
Sandra Fluke declares candidacy for California State Senate
Thursday, February 6, 2014
Women's rights advocate and Georgetown University Law Center graduate Sandra Fluke announced her candidacy yesterday to run for the California State Senate.
The Democrat previously stated she would run for a seat in the United States Congress being vacated by retiring Congressman Henry Waxman. She informed the Los Angeles Times that she decided to run for the California State Senate instead of the U.S. Congress because she felt she would be able to accomplish more for the people of California as a state Senator.
She will attempt to gain election to the seat currently occupied by Ted Lieu, a Democrat from Torrance, California. Lieu is currently in the beginning of his own campaign for Congressman Waxman's seat representing California's 33rd congressional district.
In a release to the press, Fluke said: "I am extremely moved by the outpouring of local and national support I have received since I announced that I was considering running for office. My entire career has been devoted to the public interest, whether representing victims of human trafficking or advocating for working families."
She described her intentions for the California legislature: "I am committed to continuing that fight in Sacramento, working to protect our environment, ensure our access to health care, and create the jobs that are desperately needed. While I strongly considered offering my candidacy for Congress, I feel there is a better way for me to advance the causes that are important to our community."
Fluke characterized herself as a new voice for progressivism: "I believe that the families and communities of this district — from West Hollywood to West L.A. and from Santa Monica to Torrance and beyond — deserve to have a fresh perspective from a new generation of progressive leadership in Sacramento, and I am eager to get to work fighting for the causes that matter most to our future as a community, state and nation."
After graduating from law school, Fluke moved to Los Angeles where she used her skills as a lawyer to help improve conditions for individuals related to improving the living wage and advocating for better foster care for children.
Fluke was nominated as a candidate by Time magazine for their Person of the Year of 2012. Time concluded Fluke helped give U.S. President Barack Obama an edge in his 2012 presidential re-election campaign.
Fluke was a featured speaker on September 5, 2012 at the 2012 Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. Fluke spoke to attendees at the convention about the consequences for women of electing Republican candidate for U.S. President, Mitt Romney, over incumbent President Barack Obama. Fluke campaigned with President Obama in his bid for re-election.
She was recognized April 22, 2012 with the Stand Up for Choice Award. Fluke was given the Stand Up for Choice Award at the "Third Annual Multi-Generational Brunch" of the organization NARAL Pro-Choice America which was held in New York City (NYC), New York in the United States.
Fluke received a nomination in March 2012 as a candidate for Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. The list is released annually as a special edition of Time magazine, titled Time 100.
She gave testimony to the US Congress on February 23, 2012 before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee at a hearing about women's health and contraception. She also worked for Sanctuary for Families in NYC which worked to crack down on human trafficking and domestic violence.

Politics
Japan government panel urges reinterpretation of pacifist constitution
Saturday, February 8, 2014
A Japan government panel met last Tuesday and is drafting a report aimed to urge Japan to loosen restrictions on participation in military combat — restriction of military to self-defense — imposed in its constitution since the end of World War II. They expected to finalize the report after April. North Korea reacted by calling the Prime Minister of Japan, Shinzo Abe, an "Asian Hitler" on Wednesday.
The government panel — fourteen members headed by Shunji Yanai, former ambassador to the US — sought ways to reinterpret the constitution on the grounds there was not enough public support for revising, or rewriting, the constitution itself.
Shinzo Abe said he was motivated to help keep international peace — by protecting other nations' troops, which was beyond the scope currently allowed under the constitution. He interpreted it as a country's right, commenting, "it's about whether we can exercise this right that every country has".
During the Tuesday meeting, Abe also expressed a concern that the country's national security was not ready for potential regional conflicts: "Japan's preparation for national security threats in the region is not sufficient. We must cover all the bases to protect the people's lives and safety in any possible scenario". Yousuke Isozaki, a security policy adviser to Mr Abe, said a revised military policy would strengthen Japan's ties with allies, the US in particular.
The Korean Central News Agency, the official news agency of the North Korean government, commented in an editorial, saying Abe was trying to conjure up fears of North Korea using missiles or nuclear weapons to help justify expanding Japan's military. The Korean Central News Agency were likening Abe to Hitler. The editorial followed a comment by Rodong Sinmun, the ruling party — Workers' Party of Korea — newspaper, which described Abe as a "militarist maniac" last month. The reaction was also inspired by Abe's visit to Yasukuni Shrine in December.
Under Japan's pacifist constitution, the country has not been able to engage in militaristic combat since the end of World War II.
Commenters related the move to escalated tensions with China, who had set up an Air Defense Identification Zone over a part of the East China Sea, including Japan's Senkaku Islands, in November last year.

Politics
Wiki loves the European Parliament in Strasbourg
Tuesday, February 11, 2014
Last week fifty volunteers, from nine countries covering nineteen languages, spent four days at the European Parliament buildings in Strasbourg photographing and filming members of the parliament (MEPs). This being an effort to significantly increase the audio-visual content available in Wikipedia and other Wikimedia Foundation projects.
Members of the team, who were all granted guest press accreditation, began arriving at the hotel in the small town of Kork, not far from the France–Germany border, on Saturday. The team base, Hotel Ochsen, has an interesting history. Placards on the courtyard wall explain it served as headquarters for Field marshal Kollowrat-Krakowsky battling Napoleonic forces in the 1796 Siege of Kehl.
Those arriving later came directly to the Louise Weiss building, which hosts the parliament's plenary sessions and all voting on EU matters. Whilst staying in the hotel, the Wikimedian group met two MEPs who chose it in-preference to dramatically more-expensive Strasbourg accommodation. One of the ushers from the parliament also chatted with volunteers at the hotel, self-depricatingly describing his ceremonial attire as a "penguin suit" due to the long-tailed jacket.
One of the first day's MEPs to introduce themselves to the visiting Wikimedians was Christian Engström; delivering copies of his book, The Case for Copyright Reform, co-authored with Swedish Pirate Party founder Rickard Falkvinge. Engström explained that, in the book, he argues Wikipedia is one of the losers under current copyright legislation. One of numerous MEPs who recorded video introductions in multiple languages, he was more-confident than some colleagues — the most-challenging taking thirteen takes to successfully record.
Over 1,000 new, high-quality, photographs were taken and uploaded for use on Wikimedia projects during the visit. The second and third days in the parliament saw the highest number of MEPs coming to see the visiting Wikimedians and have their photographs taken. Once photographed, MEPs were encouraged to make video introductions in languages they were comfortable speaking in. In excess of 200 video clips of MEPs introducing themselves were captured; this providing freely-reusable audio and video records available via Wikimedia Commons.
Parliamentarians became more-enthusiastic about the project in its later days, with significantly more turning up to be photographed and filmed. Given some turned up as Wikimedians were packing up on the last day, some still lack freely-licensed photographs for their Wikipedia entries. French MEP, and National Front member, Bruno Gollnisch was amongst those disappointed when turning up after much of the equipment was packed up; although Gollnisch has already provided some video recordings, he had returned with additional prepared texts — including Japanese — for use in a video introduction.
Despite much of two levels within the parliament set aside for the press, the event received little coverage from mainstream media. France TV's channel three broadcast a report on the Thursday, making footage available via their website on the Friday.
In contrast the Voice intro project (WikiVIP) started by Andy Mabbett, and brought to a far-wider audience with Stephen Fry's endorsement, saw Mabbet give an interview from one of the parliament's radio studios with United States' public radio network NPR. With Fry's recording catching the attention of the press, that project has received coverage from as-far afield as Italy, Russia, and Japan.
Audio for use on Wikipedia is to be extracted from video recordings of MEPs for use on Wikimedia projects. As available storage and bandwidth increases, it is a longer-term goal of the Wikimedia Foundation to increase freely-available, and reusable, multimedia content across all projects hosted by the Foundation.
The project also served as an opportunity to emphasise that all Wikimedia content is created through people donating their time and effort. Whilst MEPs knew anyone could edit Wikipedia, meeting a group representing all ages, and much of Europe, served as an effective public-relations exercise.

Politics
Leak suggests John Kerry will recognise Israel as Jewish state
Thursday, February 13, 2014
Ma'ariv, an Israeli daily newspaper, reports that according to a leaked US document John Kerry, the US Secretary of State, will describe Israel as a Jewish state in the outline document of the peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinian Authority (PA), despite widespread Palestinian objection. Moreover, it is noted that the document recognizes Palestine as the state of the Palestinian people.
The document will be presented to Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli Prime Minister, during his upcoming visit to the USA next month and is meant to serve as an outline for a future peace agreement between the two sides. According to The Telegraph, European diplomats fear that the document will be perceived as biased in favor of the Israeli side and therefore the Palestinians will not accept it.
Israel requested the peace agreement include recognition of Israel as a Jewish state. However, Palestinian authorities say that such recognition will depose five million refugees from ever returning to homes fled following the 1948 establishment of Israel. In addition, Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas expressed his worries such recognition will hurt the 1.5 million Arab citizens of Israel.
Nabil Shaath, the former Palestinian Foreign Minister, was quoted by The Telegraph telling reporters after the leak "When you talk about a Jewish state, you are talking about the end of the end of any solution for Palestinian refugees - do you think any Palestinian can accept this?" Shaath also said "If Mr Kerry thinks this is the sum of his brilliant intelligence, the document will go nowhere. It's impossible for the Palestinians to sign such an agreement with Israel."
The document, according to the leak, will refer to the borders dispute, which Palestine wants based on the borders before the 1967 Mideast War. Other topics covered reportedly include the future state of Jerusalem which is sacred to both nations and the Jordan Valley issue. Israel demands an ongoing military presence in the valley for ten years once an agreement is signed while the PA agrees to leave such presence only for five years.

Politics
UK drugs policy petition reaches 100,000 signatures, may prompt Parliamentary debate
Friday, February 14, 2014
The Backbench Business Committee of the House of Commons is to discuss whether to schedule a debate on reform of Britain's drug laws, after a petition calling for an independent review of the laws reached 100,000 signatures this week. The petition was started by Green Party MP Caroline Lucas and calls for a cost-benefit analysis and impact assessment for the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971.
The petition was backed by the online campaigning organisation Avaaz as well as by numerous celebrities and public figures including the comedian Russell Brand, businessman Richard Branson, rock performer Sting, and broadcaster Joan Bakewell.
Lucas said Britain now spends £3 billion annually on enforcing drugs policy and an assessment of "whether Britain's current approach is value for money or money wasted" is required. She also said: "The Misuse of Drugs Act is hopelessly out of date. It has never been reviewed, or undergone a cost-benefit analysis. In England and Wales alone, an estimated £3 billion a year is spent fighting the war on drugs, to little effect. Over half of the people in prison are thought to have serious drug problems, and yet we continue to fail to treat drug addiction as the serious health problem it is."
Russell Brand — who has spoken publicly of his use of drugs — said: "Almost 2,000 young people die in the UK each year from taking illegal drugs. But leading police, doctors, and politicians agree prohibition has completely failed to curb addiction."
Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg stated his support for the review in a newspaper editorial: "The UK can lead the debate in Europe and Europe can lead the debate in the world. But we must be prepared to start afresh with a new mindset and be prepared to do things differently."

Crime
Israel jails teen bomber Mohammed Mafarja for 25 years
Monday, March 10, 2014
A court in Israel today jailed Muhammad Abed al-Jaffer Nasser Mafarja, 19, for 25 years after he bombed a bus in Tel Aviv in 2012.
Two people received significant injuries in the explosion, which also wounded eight others and sent fourteen victims into shock. Mafarja was under 18 at the time of the attack. He placed the device on the bus after rejecting several others he rode on as insufficiently crowded, according to the prosecution. He then left the bus and phoned a co-conspirator, who detonated it remotely.
Mafarja was convicted on his own plea last December in a deal which spared him a possible life sentence by dropping a charge of aiding an enemy at a time of war. The bombing was during a brief war between Israel and Gaza and was designed to convince the Israel Defence Forces to withdraw. Later that day an unrelated ceasefire was brokered by Egypt.
The sentence was the highest allowed by the deal. Laviv Habib, representing Mafarja, cited the defendant's young age, and his guilty pleas, in mitigation. He also said the device was a "weak bomb" not designed to kill but acknowledged his client's actions were "not simple" and Mafarja understood fatalities were possible.
Mafarja admitted offences of causing an explosion, conducting an act with intent to aid the enemy, attempted murder, and causing serious bodily harm. Of Palestinian origin, he gained Israeli residency as part of a family reunion programme. After the bombing he returned to his job at a McDonald's in Azrieli Mall, Modi’in after catching a train.
Other alleged members of Mafarja's cell, which was based in the Beit Liqya and Ramallah areas, have been indicted. Prosecutors claim political assassinations and suicide attacks were planned. Palestinian Ahmed Moussa, a West Bank resident, is presently on trial over the bus bombing; he is accused of triggering the device. Mohammed Assi was shot dead by Israeli authorities during an attempted arrest. A fourth suspect, Ahmad Salah Ahmad Musa, 25 and of Beit Likya, was indicted in January.

Crime
Inquiry finds proper maintenance might have prevented 2009 North Sea helicopter disaster
Sunday, March 16, 2014
 Fatal Accident Inquiry (FAI) ruled on Thursday a helicopter crash into the North Sea might have been prevented had proper maintenance procedures been followed. All sixteen on board died when the aircraft went down off the Scottish coast.
After a hearing in Aberdeen, Sheriff Principal Derek Pyle found Bond Offshore Helicopters failed to remove a component after a metal shard was found. The shard suggested spalling, or the shedding of metal particles in the aircraft's gearbox. "The size and shape of the particle found [...] were consistent with an advanced stage of classic spalling" according to the inquiry's findings.
A week before the crash Bond mulled partially replacing the gearbox. The aircraft went down after the gearbox failed in flight. Pyle found a failure in communication between Bond and helicopter manufacturer Eurocopter had led to the decision not to replace the gearbox.
The routine flight was taking oil workers back to Aberdeen from the Miller offshore oil platform, owned by BP. The aircraft radioed air traffic control to inform they were twenty minutes from Aberdeen Airport but six seconds later was confronted with an oil warning light and grinding sounds. The crew declared an emergency but the main rotor broke free, which in turn smashed through the tail leaving the aircraft to plunge into the sea. The aircraft crashed within twenty seconds of the first sign of trouble.
The inquiry is surrounded by controversy owing to the five-year gap between accident and findings, and the decision by Crown Office not to prosecute over the crash. "For a criminal prosecution to have taken place, the Crown would have to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt" a Crown Office statement said on Thursday. "The Sheriff Principal makes clear that a reasonable doubt remained over the technical cause of the crash".
Although the Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) and Sheriff Pyle found a catastrophic gearbox failure triggered the crash, the exact cause of the failure was never conclusively decided. After hearing expert evidence Pyle found the balance of probabilities pointed to spalling, but could not rule out a manufacturing defect.
The inquiry's findings note "that it would be an extraordinary coincidence if the failure properly to carry out inspection and maintenance of the helicopter’s gearbox was not causative of a catastrophic failure of the same within a matter of days. But, as the evidence made clear, such a coincidence was indeed a possibility." Pyle's report added "the small piece of the helicopter which would have proved the matter beyond any doubt [has] not been recovered from the seabed".
Bond have released a statement noting "We have always accepted that we made mistakes through honest confusion over telephone calls and emails." Sheriff Pyle found Bond's employees "tried to carry out their jobs as diligently as they could. All of them impressed me as engineers who well understood the vital importance of their role in ensuring [...] safety". He also found staff were well-trained and resourced, echoing findings by the AAIB and the Civil Aviation Authority.
Pyle noted Bond readily accepted they should have properly followed the maintenance manual and normally did, but "on one occasion, that fundamental rule was broken" and the crash was likely a result. Bond, Eurocopter, and investigators all gave evidence.
Trade unions and victims' families, however, have slammed the decision not to prosecute. While welcoming the FAI's conclusions, victims' lawyer Tom Marshall said the families wanted to review the decision not to prosecute with the Lord Advocate, and are also seeking a broader public inquiry. Audrey Wood, whose son Stuart died in the disaster, said "How [Crown Office] arrived at that decision [not prosecuting] will haunt us, as not only did we hear of multiple breaches of health and safety, but the decision was also made without all the evidence being present, as vital witness statements had not been given".
Wood said there were multiple breaches of health and safety law that could be prosecuted. Crown Office's statement counters "evidence presented during the FAI has not altered the insufficiency of evidence, therefore the decision not to hold criminal proceedings remains the correct one". Unite union branded their decision a "travesty of justice".
Politicians have criticised the five-year delay holding the FAI, as has Scottish Trades Union Congress general secretary Grahame Smith who said "It is vitally important that lessons are learned at the earliest opportunity following tragedies where lives are lost". Sheriff Pyle himself concluded "what can, I think, very properly be said is that nearly five years [delay] is on any view far too long and that we all have a responsibility for that. [...] everyone concerned in future fatal accidents involving aircraft of whatever kind should do much better."
Labour have called for new FAI rules; MSP Patricia Ferguson has put a bill before parliament; the Scottish Government says Sheriff Pyle's conclusions are being scrutinised. MSP Richard Baker said the victims' families and North Sea oil workers, who routinely use helicopters, had waited "far too long" for the FAI to conclude. "FAIs should never be delayed so long again."
Crown Office expressed sympathy with the families involved for the delay but blamed the complex nature of the investigation, and pointed out the AAIB, Civil Aviation Authority, and local police had all already conducted their own enquiries. The AAIB spent 30 months investigating.
Twelve victims were from Scotland, many of those from in and around Aberdeen where the six-week inquiry was held. Three more were from elsewhere in the UK and the last was a Latvian national. Half of the fourteen passengers and two crew died "instantaneously" and the rest died very shortly after impact with the sea from blunt force trauma, the inquiry found.
None survived long enough to drown, according to Sheriff Pyle. Nonetheless he noted "there was a poignant moment when a witness was being taken through the graph in the AAIB report which set out the timeline of the accident that I, if not others present, understood for the first time the true horror of what took place."
Audrey Wood said "The length of wait for nearly five years has been intolerable for all the families and we, the families, feel let down by the system." Bond's statement this week says "We would like to express again our deep sorrow at the 16 lives lost. Bond Offshore hopes [the inquiry] brings a degree of closure to the families, friends and dependents of those who died in the tragedy of 2009." The sheriff also noted the "courage" of victims' families, who attended the full hearing.

Crime
Texas police name 'person of interest' in DeBerry woman's disappearance
Wednesday, March 19, 2014
On Monday, Texas police identified Rodris Webster, 25, as a person-of-interest in the recent disappearance of a 19 year-old woman. The woman, Alicia Benefield, of DeBerry, Texas, was reported missing on Friday.
Webster is described as Benefield's boyfriend. He was arrested in January and charged with aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. Benefield was the complainant in that charge according to media reports. Webster remained jailed until Benefield dropped the charge on March 5.
Police investigators inspected a trash dumpster located in the nearby town of Waskom on Sunday morning. In it they reportedly found Webster's wet, muddy hoodie with Benefield's keys in the pocket. Police interviewed Webster for 5 hours on Sunday, but released him around 6pm. The woman, still missing on Tuesday morning, is described as petite size, about 110 pounds, with a nose piercing and a tattoo on one arm saying "Wanda Ree". She was last seen wearing a white sweater and brown tights.
A police official told reporters Webster had not confessed to any criminal activity: "The story is out there that he has confessed and we do not have a confession". Benefield's mother told reporters she expects her daughter to call her. "She is going to call. I'm going to be the first one she calls, matter of fact. I don't care how mad she think[s] I am. She's going to call me."

Crime
Community members host fundraiser to help family of slain Texas woman
Monday, March 24, 2014
Community members held a public bake sale fundraiser on Sunday to help the family of a Texas woman slain earlier this month. Alicia Benefield, 19, of DeBerry was killed allegedly by her boyfriend, Rodris Webster. Sharon Jernigan of Panola was the key organizer of the fundraiser.
On Friday, Mrs. Jernigan told Wikinews, "This murder has devastated the entire community." The fundraiser was held at a small grocery store in the neighboring town of Bethany, which borders the Louisiana–Texas state line. Sunday evening, Jernigan reported, "The bake sale was a big success."
Webster, 25, was arrested early last week and charged with one count of murder and one count of felon in possession of a firearm. Benefield's body was found in Marshall, Texas. Upon hearing of the discovery, a family member of the victim posted to his Facebook page, "Struggling to know how someone could do such a horrific thing." Webster is presently being held on US$1 million bond in the Harrison County jail. Earlier, he was questioned by police on March 16, just two days after Benefield's car was found at a church near her home, but was released after five hours of questioning.

Crime
Glasgow inmate John Clark accused of murder in Barlinnie prison
Tuesday, March 25, 2014
John Clark appeared at Glasgow Sheriff Court on Friday charged with murdering cellmate Colin Penrose, 22, in the city's Barlinnie prison.
Penrose, from the West Coast town of Oban, had been recalled to prison for alleged further offending after being paroled from a sentence for sexual assault against a teenager. Police Scotland confirmed they were called to the prison, Scotland's largest, shortly after 2:00am on Thursday when Penrose was found dead in the cell.
Clark has been remanded pending a full committal hearing next week. Clark is variously reported to be either 21 or 22.
Penrose died on the top floor of the jail's E Hall. E Hall includes accommodation for vulnerable prisoners.
Penrose, who attended Oban High School, is survived by his parents, both 60. He listed himself on Facebook as single but had liked a dating page, and according to his profile was seeking employment. "I hate football and I hate the police", his profile reads, adding he enjoyed a drink at the weekend.
In early 2012 he uploaded a photo of himself with a swollen eye. Without explaining the injury he asked "does [anybody want] to say anything about my eyes in this picture or do [you not] give a shit [what] happens to me"? He received no response until a year later, when the reply "thats what happens to beasts!!" was received.
Several friends posted condolences to his page after his death. One claimed he had been strangled.
The famous four-storey Victorian prison is routinely overcrowded, with prisoners sharing cells meant for individual use. With drug use at over 80% of the population, Barlinnie is Western Europe's largest dispenser of heroin substitute methadone.
The famous four-storey Victorian prison is routinely overcrowded, with prisoners sharing cells meant for individual use. With drug use at over 80% of the population, Barlinnie is Western Europe's largest dispenser of heroin substitute methadone.
In 2011 governor Derek McGill complained "If we could eliminate overcrowding, we could do more with the prisoners." He was speaking after an inspector branded the facility unsafe for prisoners and staff alike due to chronic overcrowding. Scottish Executive spending cuts around the same time reduced the Scottish Prison Service's building funds significantly.
Plans are nonetheless afoot to replace Barlinnie with a new prison, to be called HMP Glasgow. The Prison Service is tendering for consultants to identify potential sites. Although the Scottish Government aims to reduce prisoner populations the new prison is to be more than twice the size of Barlinnie.
The nation's sex offenders were, until recently, usually all held at Peterhead. The internationally-acclaimed sex offender treatment center was permanently closed late last year and the inmates moved elsewhere. Peterhead prison has been replaced with the £140 million "super prison" HMP Grampian, built next door to the Peterhead site. Men, women, and young offenders are all held at the prison for the first time at a Scottish jail and the first inmates arrived this month. Aberdeen prison has also closed and been replaced with the new jail.
Homicide behind bars is unusual in Scotland, though there have been cases in 2006 and 1996. Neighbouring England has seen a spate recently, including four last year. Those four deaths were all charged as murder and represented the highest England and Wales total since 1998.

Education
Sallie Mae leads Consumer Financial Protection Bureau complaints about student loans
Tuesday, October 1, 2013
A review this week by Wikinews of US Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) complaints about student loans in the United States shows Sallie Mae leads all lending institutions in complaints. Of the 4,851 complaints dating back to March 2012 when the CFPB first began collecting student loan data, 2,262 or 46.6% of all complaints were about the lender. US Federal Reserve data from 2010/2011 shows Sallie Mae is the nation's largest student loan lender, responsible for 25% of the market
The other major lenders in this space include Wells Fargo, JP Morgan Chase, PNC, and Discover. In complaints, AES/PHEAA came in second with 546, or 11.3% of all complaints. Wells Fargo, Citibank and JPMorgan Chase each had between 5% and 7.5% of all complaints, totaling 918 complaints between them. 78 other lending institutions round out the list of organizations with complaints filed against them for student loans.
Few of the complaints originate from people with problems with federal student loans. Less than 1%, 35 total, are for these types of loans, with Sallie Mae accounting for the bulk of complaints with 17 total. 14 other lending institutions have 3 or fewer complaints. For non-federal student loans, Sallie Mae is still the leader for complaints, with 2245 or 46.6% of all non-federal student loan complaints.
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau sorts complaints into three issues: Problems when you are unable to pay, Repaying your loan, and Getting a loan. None of the federal loans had complaints about getting a loan. For non-federal loans, 65.5% of the 4,816 complaints related to loan repayment. Sallie Mae led in total complaints in this category with 1467. They were followed by AES/PHEAA with 356, Wells Fargo with 231, Citibank with 201, Discover with 158, JPMorgan Chase with 154, ACS Education Services with 143, and KeyBank NA with 116. CFPB says loan repayment issues include a basket of claim types including "fees, billing, deferment, forbearance, fraud, and credit reporting." Problems when you are unable pay accounts for 30.8% of the complaints. Sallie Mae had 698 complaints. They were followed by AES/PHEAA with 181, JPMorgan Chase with 106, Wells Fargo with 104, Citibank with 70, and KeyBank NA with 58. Many of the complaints are, according to the CFPB, because borrowers have difficulty getting deferrments on loan repayment as a result of being unable to find employment.
The total complaints against Sallie Mae for September of this year is 2 fewer than the same time last year. The company's performance this year compared to last year has been mixed. March and June numbers were down over 150 complaints from the same month a year before. April, May, July and August all saw increases of 17–43. Of the top six lenders by volume of complaints, only AES/PHEAA and Citibank saw drops every month between March and September from the total volume in the previous year. Wells Fargo had a gain of 1 in August and 6 in May from the previous year. JPMorgan Chase had a difference of 0 from the same month last year for April, 3 more this year for May, and 4 more for August. Discover saw an increase every month from the same period last year except for September. When the total complaints differences from year to year for March to September are counted, this year has 571 fewer complaints against the top six lenders.
Most, 1470, of the complaints against Sallie Mae were closed with explanations. 10.2% were closed with monetary relief. 7.7% were closed with non-monetary relief. 2.1% were closed with relief and 12.1% were closed without relief. AES/PHEAA's complaint closure picture was much different. 40.1% of AES/PHEAA's 546 complaints were closed with non-monetary relief, 35.3% were closed with explanations and 21.2% were closed without relief. Of the eight lending institutions with 100 or more complaints filed against them, Discover was the institution most likely to result in a closure with monetary relief with 12.9% of all their closures ending this way. Citibank was the institution with the highest percentage of closures ending with no relief at 26.0%.
Complaints over student loan lenders were geographically distributed, coming from 3,447 different zip codes. The largest cluster of complaints is for 20001, a Washington D.C. zip code with 10 complaints originating from there. 07950, the zip code for Morris Plains, New Jersey, and 37013, the zip code for Antioch, Tennessee, each had 8 complaints originating from them. Zip codes for Patchogue, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Washington D.C.; and Arlington, Virginia each had 7 complaints originating from them. By volume of complaints by state, New York led with 497, with California second with 467, Pennsylvania third with 303, Florida fourth with 288 and Ohio fifth with 219 complaints. US Territories largely occupied the bottom spots. The Northern Marianas Islands, with a population of around 50,000, had 1 complaint. The U.S. Armed Forces – Pacific had 3. North Dakota and U.S. Armed Forces – Europe had 5 complaints each. South Dakota had 7. Wyoming had 8. Puerto Rico and Alaska had 9 each. Rounding out the bottom five states by volume of complaints, Mississippi had 11.
With the possibility of a United States government federal shutdown looming on October 1, student loans may be impacted because of potential for an automatic increase in interest rates.

Education
Japanese adults rank high in literacy and numeracy in OECD survey
Wednesday, October 9, 2013
Yesterday, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), a 34 member international economic organization founded in 1961 that traces its origins back to the World War II-era Marshall Plan, published results on the state of adult skills in 24 countries, most of them European. Compared to other countries surveyed, Japan ranks as one of the best-performing surveyed countries in both literacy and numeracy.
Internationally, Japan ranks first amongst surveyed countries for literacy proficiency amongst adults. At the highest proficiency level, level 5, Japan is tied with Sweden and ranks as the fourth highest percentage of surveyed nations at 1.2%. Only Finland, at 2.2%, and Australia and the Netherlands, at 1.3%, are higher. Readers at this level synthesize text, compare and contrast ideas and points of view, and process information across multiple sources. Japan has one of the smallest percentages, at 4.3%, of their population at reading proficiency level 1. This means adults have a basic understanding of what they read, can fill out forms and can understanding the meaning of sentences. Amongst young adults aged 16 to 24 years, Japan ranks first amongst surveyed countries, with a mean score comparable to Finland.
Japan ranks first amongst all surveyed countries in numeracy proficiency amongst adults aged 16 to 65 years. When only people aged 16 to 24 years are looked at, Japan finishes third amongst surveyed nations with an average score comparable to Austria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, South Korea, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Sweden, and the Flanders region of Belgium.
The correlation between individual performance on numeracy and literacy tests in Japan of 0.846 is below the surveyed average of 0.867.
In proficiency at problem solving, Japan finishes tenth amongst surveyed nations. Adults were allowed to opt out of using computers for this test, and Japan had the third largest percentage at 15.9% opting to do so.
The Japanese data said adult literacy skills did not impact on social inequality, and that literacy is not a barrier to social mobility. This contrasts to other countries like the United States where literacy skills correlate to social mobility.
The percentage of adults who have completed university in Japan is above the global average, particularly for people aged 25 to 34 years. Japan is also below the global average in terms of the percentage of the population who have not finished high school. Japan finishes in the middle of surveyed countries based on reading skills required at work.
The results are based on a survey of 166,000 adults from Australia, Austria, Flanders, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, England, Northern Ireland, the United States, Cyprus, and Russia. They survey was conducted from August 2011 to March 2012, with the exceptions of Canada where data was collected from November 2011 to June 2012, and France from September to November 2012.

Education
Spain sits near the bottom of OECD rankings on adult literacy and numeracy
Thursday, October 10, 2013
Tuesday, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), a 34 member international economic organization founded in 1961 that traces its origins back to the World War II-era Marshall Plan, published results on the state of adult skills in 24 countries, most of them European. Spain finished near the bottom of all surveyed countries when it came to adult literacy and numeracy.
Internationally, Spain ranks second to last amongst surveyed countries for literacy proficiency amongst adults. Only Italy has a lower literacy proficiency amongst adults. Spain, at 20.3%, has one of the highest percentages of their population at reading proficiency level 1. This means adults have a basic understanding of what they read, can fill out forms, and can understand the meaning of sentences. When below level 1 is added, the total comes to 27.5% of the population at the lowest reading proficiency level. Overall, Spain's mean reading proficiency score puts them on par with Italy. Amongst young adults aged 16 to 24 years, Spain ranks second to last amongst surveyed countries, with a mean score comparable to Italy, England, and Northern Ireland, and Cyprus.
Spain ranks last amongst all surveyed countries in numeracy proficiency amongst adults aged 16 to 65 years. The country's mean score is comparable to Italy. When only 16 to 24 year-olds are included, Spain's overall relative performance increases by two spots, as a result of beating out Italy and the United States. The performance of this age group is comparable to Ireland, Italy, England and Northern Ireland. Individual performance on numeracy and literacy correlates highly in Spain at 0.887.
The percentage of adults who have completed university in Spain is slightly under the global average for people aged 25 to 34 years, and significantly below average for people aged 55 to 65 years. Spain finishes near the bottom of surveyed countries based on reading skills required at work. Only the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, and Italy require less use of reading skills at work.
In 2010, roughly 50% of people in Spain had access to the Internet. From 2005 to 2010, there was an increase from around 25% to around 35% in the number of individuals using the Internet to interact with government in Spain. In the same period, business interaction with governments in Spain increased from about 55% to about 65%. Spain's percentage of foreign-born residents rose from around 3% in 1995 to about 14% in 2009.
The results are based on a survey of 166,000 adults from Australia, Austria, Flanders, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, England, Northern Ireland, the United States, Cyprus, and Russia. They survey was conducted from August 2011 to March 2012, with the exceptions of Canada where data was colected from November 2011 to June 2012, and France from September to November 2012.

Education
Australia has mixed OECD rankings for literacy and numeracy amongst adults
Friday, October 11, 2013
Tuesday, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), a 34 member international economic organization founded in 1961 that traces its origins back to the World War II-era Marshall Plan, published results on the state of adult skills in 24 countries, most of them European. Australia had mixed rankings for literacy and numeracy amongst adults, finishing amongst the top for literacy and in the middle for numeracy.
Internationally, Australia ranks fourth amongst surveyed countries for literacy proficiency amongst adults. At the highest proficiency level, level 5, Australia ranks as the second highest percentage of surveyed nations at 1.3%. It is tied with the Netherlands. Only Finland is higher at 2.2%. Readers at this level synthesize text, compare and contrasts ideas and points of view, and process information across multiple sources. Australia, at 9.4%, has one of the smallest percentages of their population at reading proficiency level 1. This means adults have a basic understanding of what they read, can fill out forms and can understanding the meaning of sentences. Overall, Australia's mean reading proficiency score puts them on par with Norway and Sweden. When scores are adjusted for non-response, Australia is on par with Estonia. Amongst young adults aged 16 to 24 years, Australia ranks seventh amongst surveyed countries, with a mean score comparable to the Czech Republic, Estonia, Germany, Poland, Sweden, and the Flanders region of Belgium.
The Australian data said adult literacy skills did not strongly impact on social inequality, and literacy is not a barrier to social mobility. This contrasts to some other countries like the United States where literacy skills correlate to social mobility. Further, it shows an adult's socio-economic background is not tied very strongly to skills proficiency.
Australia ranks thirteenth amongst all surveyed countries in numeracy proficiency amongst adults aged 16 to 65 years. The country's mean score is comparable to Canada. Australia's relative high international performance in literacy and low performance in numeracy buck international trends. When only 16 to 24 year-olds are looked at, Australia's numeracy ranking falls one position and puts their performance comparable to Canada, Denmark, Norway, Poland, and Cyprus.
Individual performance on numeracy and literacy correlates highlighly in Australia at 0.889.
In proficiency at problem solving, Australia finishes sixth amongst surveyed nations. Adults were allowed to opt out of using computers for this test, and Australia had the sixth largest percentage at 13.7% opting to do so. In a technology-rich problem solving environment, Australia finished two nations below the international average, just behind Austria.
The percentage of adults who have completed university in Australia is close to the global average. Australia is slightly higher on the global average in terms of the percentage of the population who have not finished high school for people aged 25 to 34, and significantly higher for people aged 55 to 65 years.
Australia's percentage of foreign-born residents rose from around 23% in 1995 to about 27% in 2009. Australia, more than most surveyed nations, has employers who require reading skills at work.
The survey says e-commerce grew by more than a factor of eight by 2008 from the levels that existed in 2001. By 2010, over 60% of Australians had access to the Internet.
The report suggests the relatively similar scores amongst the different age groups is a result of standardized testing in Australia having changed little since the 1970s.
The results are based on a survey of 166,000 adults from Australia, Austria, Flanders, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, England, Northern Ireland, the United States, Cyprus, and Russia. They survey was conducted from August 2011 to March 2012, with the exceptions of Canada where data was collected from November 2011 to June 2012, and France from September to November 2012.

Education
Bangladesh government makes Hijra an official gender option
Monday, November 11, 2013
Earlier today, the Prime Minister of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina chaired a cabinet meeting which decided to grant official government recognition of people who gender identify as Hijras, people who identify as neither male nor female.
Recognition brings several government related benefits to Hijras including priority in education, housing and health. Their gender designation will also appear on their passports as Hijras. English language documents will refer to them as Hijras as the government claims any English translation would be misleading. The decision was announced by Cabinet Secretary Musharraf Hossain Bhuiyan at a media briefing following the meeting.
Hijras already have voting rights in Bangladesh. A survey by the Ministry of Social Welfare says 10,000 people who identify as Hijras live in the country.

Environment
Fires burn across eastern Australia amid summer heatwave
Sunday, January 13, 2013
Despite earlier cooler weather, heatwave conditions are expected to resume in New South Wales, Australia. Local weather service forecasts expect temperatures to rise above 40°C (104°F), as-experienced earlier in the week. The percentage of uncontained fires jumped as high as 20%. On Friday, local fire authorities have declared total fire bans across Victoria, New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory. Fire crews at the east coast of Australia are readying to battle an increased rate of bushfires during the weekend.
Uncontrolled fires have also been burning across the states of Tasmania, Victoria, and Queensland.
Extremely hot weather and strong winds played havoc with the fires early in the week. A minor change in the weather assisted crews on Thursday but the high temperatures are set to return on Friday and through the weekend.
Thirty devastating fires in Tasmania are now being controlled after burning 130 properties and 110,000 hectares of land throughout the past week.
In Victoria there are two significant fires being fought with several others now under control but concerns remain for the weekend with the temperature forecast to rise to 42°C in the north of the state.
Queensland firefighters continued to battle fires north of of the capital Brisbane on Bribie Island, with at least 22 fires still burning throughout the state.
New South Wales has 120 fires burning as of Friday with 370,000 hectares of land, 10,000 livestock and one property already destroyed.
Deputy Commissioner of the New South Wales Rural Fire Service, Rob Rogers briefed reporters on the bushfires at the Rural Fire Service Headquarters on Friday.
"They are very large, all either in excess or very close to 10,000 hectares (and) in some cases 100 kilometres of fireline. That's an awful lot of fireline for firefighters to monitor and obviously that's going to be troubling over today and particularly tomorrow when it will be even hotter."
One fire at Dean's Gap in New South Wales had authorities concerned due to its proximity to an old military range that contains unexploded ordinances at Tianjara plateau. Firefighters have used earth moving equipment to create containment lines and specialised gel to protect the range.

Environment
US Navy ship damages Tubbataha Reef National Park
Saturday, January 19, 2013
The USS Guardian, a United States Navy vessel used for destroying mines, ran aground in the Philippines' Tubbataha Reef National Park in the Sulu Sea on Thursday, according to the US Navy.
The US Navy said the incident occurred at 2:25 a.m. local time about 130 km east-southeast of the province of Palawan in the Philippines and about 98 nautical miles from Puerto Princesa, the capital of the province. There were no reports of injuries nor signs of fuel leakage. The ship has a crew of 80 and had previously completed a port call at Subic Bay earlier in the week.
The US Navy also said they were investigating the incident. They also said in a statement, "The crew is currently working to determine the best method of safely extracting the ship". An Avenger class mine countermeasures ship, the ship was on its way to Puerto Princesa in Palawan. It is assigned to the U.S. Navy’s Seventh Fleet and based in Sasebo, Nagasaki in Japan.
The US Embassy in Manila stated, "The Government of the Philippines was promptly informed of the incident and offered to assist the U.S. Navy, and we greatly appreciate their offers of assistance [...] The safety of the Guardian’s crew and preventing harm to the environment are the U.S. Navy's top priorities". An official of the Armed Forces of the Philippines based in Palawan told reporters they have deployed a force offering to assist the Guardian.
Under sections 19 and 26 of the Tubbataha Reefs National Park Act of 2009, Republic Act 10067, the US Navy can be charged with unauthorized entry and could pay 12,000PHP for each square meter of reef destroyed.
A similar incident occurred in 2005 when the Rainbow Warrior ran aground in the same vicinity. Greenpeace, an environmental advocacy group and owners of the Rainbow Warrior, were fined 384,000PHP (US$6,857) for damaging a reef area of 32 by 3 meters (105 by 10 feet).
Tubbataha Reef has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1993 and covers 97,030 hectares. A diverse variety of coral reef and marine life currently take refuge within the park including sharks and turtles. The reef is also known as a popular recreational diving site.

Environment
Kiribati acquires international funding for solar power
Tuesday, March 26, 2013
Last Tuesday, AusAID Australia and the World Bank's Global Environment Fund (GEF) reached an agreement to give the government of Kiribati US$5 million (AU$4,779,000, NZ$5,985,000, €3,885,000) to install solar panels around the country capital, located on the Tarawa atoll. According to Business Desk of the Brunei Times, AusAID promised AU$3.2 million in funding, while GEF promised US$1 million. The country was the first in the Pacific to make a deal with the World Bank.
The funding was part of a US$530 million (NZ$635 million) package announced at yesterday's Pacific Energy Summit in Auckland involving New Zealand and the European Union, Australia, the Asian Development Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Japan International Cooperation Agency, the World Bank Group, and the United Arab Emirates. Also at the summit yesterday, New Zealand's Foreign Affairs Minister Murray McCully had announced a national commitment of USD$54,262,000 (AU$51,861,000 NZ$65 million, €42,178,000) to Pacific region energy solutions, of which US$8,348,000 (AU$8 million, NZ$10 million, €6,483,000) would be specifically earmarked for renewable energy and improved energy efficiency in the Cook Islands, Kiribati, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Tonga, and Tuvalu.
Kiribati is heavily dependent on diesel fuel for most of the energy available on the national power grid, which supplies power to half Kiribati's population of 110,000. In addition, a third of the country's population lacks access to electricity. Once installation of the solar panels is complete, they are estimated to reduce diesel consumption by 230,000 liters (60,760 gallons) a year and give access to the electricity to some parts of the population that currently have no electricity. The European Union already has committed €100 million to sustainable energy in the region, with €10 million of that coming as a result of an announcement made last week.
In a press release about the news, Kiribati President Anote Tong was quoted as saying, "Kiribati faces big challenges it is remote, it is at risk from the effects of climate change, and it is vulnerable to economic shocks. [...] Shifting Kiribati's focus to reliable solar energy will provide a more secure, more sustainable power source for the country's people." Radio New Zealand International quoted Tong as saying, "It's the first time we are doing this. We're excited at the prospect of even substituting fossil fuel to a small extent at this stage. What the system being envisaged will only produce around 500 kilowatts, but this is the beginning of what I hope will be a pattern, the trend in the future."
The European Union's Fiji-based head of operations for the Pacific region, Renato Mele, supported alternative energy solutions like solar power for the region, but said that solar power had limitations because climate and environmental conditions sometimes meant batteries required to power the panels had a life of only 12 months, compared to other climates where batteries normally last five years. This created the potential to drive up standard operating costs. Mele has also noted these additional costs though are still lower than the cost of diesel power.
One News Pacific Correspondent Barbara Dreaver noted, "Governments will be able to put the money they (currently) spend on diesel into things like education and health."

Environment
Dungog, Australia residents celebrate continued protection of local forest
Thursday, September 5, 2013
Local residents of Dungog, a small country town in New South Wales (NSW), Australia, held a celebratory nature walk on Sunday after they received assurance that their local forest was deemed worthy of "enduring protection." Previously, a proposal before the NSW government to log over one million hectares of protected national park forests had caused alarm among nature conservationists.
To celebrate the continued protection of national parks in NSW, a free guided walk was held on Sunday in the Black Bulga Range Conservation Area. This family-friendly nature ramble meandered along the mountain's ridge, with locals enjoying the forest, sharing a cup of billy tea and knowledge about the local forest's ecology and history. The physical presence of the locals in the forest demonstrated their continued use of this area and the importance of national parks for the community.
Since early 2012, the possibility of logging for commercial timber in NSW national parks had been emerging. A state government inquiry on the management of public land in NSW received submissions and evidence from both the Australian and NSW Forest Products Associations (FPA). The FPA's recommendation to "tenure swap" between national parks and state forests in order to sustain the timber industry were included in the final governmental report.
The process began in April 2012 when the NSW Legislative Council —the upper house of the parliament of NSW— established an inquiry into the management of public land in New South Wales, conducted by the General Purpose Standing Committee No. 5. According to a media release from the Legislative Council at the time, the primary purpose of the inquiry was to "scrutinise the management of the State's public land and review the process and impact of converting Crown Land, State Forests or agricultural land into National Park estate."
By August that year, the committee had received a recommendation from Mr. Grant Johnson of the Australian Forests Products Association for the "re-introduction of harvesting activities in forest areas previously set aside for conservation." The following month, Mr. Johnson and Mr Russell Alan Ainley, Executive Director, NSW Forest Products Association, were invited before the committee. At this hearing, the chair, Mr. R. L. Brown, member for the Shooters and Fishers Party, asked Mr. Ainley for "a calculation of the area currently in [national parks] reserve that would need to be returned [to state forest] to be available for timber extraction". In response, Mr. Ainley suggested "a little more than one million hectares."
On May 15, the NSW Legislative Council published a Final Report on the management of public land in New South Wales. Among its key recommendations was that "the NSW Government immediately identify appropriate reserved areas for release to meet the levels of wood supply needed to sustain the timber industry, and that the NSW Government take priority action to release these areas, if necessary by a 'tenure swap' between national park estate and State forests. In particular, urgent action is required for the timber industry in the Pilliga region."
A "tenure swap" would reserve areas of NSW state forest where logging is now allowed, in exchange for opening areas of national parks for logging.
Environment groups such as The Nature Conservation Council of NSW and The Wilderness Society announced that these government documents signaled an immediate threat of logging in national parks in NSW. This information raised concerns of other community and activist groups because logging is not conducted in national parks in Australia. According to the NSW Department of Environment, Climate Change and Water, a national park is an area designated to "protect Australia's plants, animals, ecosystems, unique geology and Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal cultural connections to the land."
The Black Bulga State Conservation Area was one of many parks listed by the environment group Save Your National Parks as potentially vulnerable for "tenure swap". This forest covers 1554 hectares and connects Dungog Shire to the World Heritage listed Barrington Tops National Park, part of a green corridor from the ocean to the mountains.
Residents living near the forest were concerned by the proposal for logging in their area. A local information day held in June, at the Settlers Arms, Dungog, motivated local action. As a consequence of the event, over forty hand-written letters were posted to the Premier and local MPs. In a recent reply from the NSW government, the Minister for the Environment, Robyn Parker, stated: "The Government does not support commercial logging in national parks and reserves, including Black Bulga State Conservation Area, and has no plans to allow it. The NSW Government recognises that our national parks and reserves are special and unique places that deserve enduring protection. The Government is committed to their important role in conserving native flora and fauna and cultural heritage, and to improving community well-being through increased opportunities for recreation and tourism".
As reported in the Dungog Chronicle, Jo New of the Black Bulga Range Action Group was thrilled by the government's response to a community-driven campaign. "It goes to show what a wonderful impact local people can have after they do something simple, like posting a letter".

Environment
Endangered 'Asian unicorn' sighted
Thursday, November 14, 2013
On Tuesday, the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) announced that a living saola, or "Asian unicorn", has been photographed in Central Vietnam. The picture was recorded last September by a camera trap placed by the Vietnamese government and the WWF.
The saola, an antelope-like animal with long horns, had not been seen in Vietnam since 1998, said Quảng Nam Forest Protection Department Deputy Head Dang Dinh Nguyen. The saola is critically endangered, according to the IUCN Red List of Endangered Species. The WWF estimates only a few dozen saola, or at most a few hundred, survive in remote, dense upland forests along Vietnam's border with Laos. They have never survived in captivity.
The WWF hopes to help save the saola from extinction by safeguarding its habitat from poachers. Their country director for Vietnam, Van Ngoc Thinh, said, "This is a breathtaking discovery and renews hope for the recovery of the species."

Health
Slow start to winter 2013/2014 flu season in USA
Sunday, October 27, 2013
With the United States flu season having started this month, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), The Weather Channel and Google's FluTrends websites report today low flu levels.
All three sources say there are no, or minimal, reports of the flu in Arkansas, Colorado, Delaware, Idaho, Maine, Montana, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, and West Virginia. All three indicate Alabama has moderate flu levels. Google FluTrends indicates that at the same time last year, the flu level nationally was at moderate.
During the early part of the month, there were some concerns about the quality of flu reporting as the CDC and other government supported flu tracking organizations were impacted by the US government shutdown. Some non-profits and private organizations provided their own data during this period to fill the information void.
The CDC advises people to get a flu vaccine as the best means of avoiding getting the flu. Dr. Harry Leider, Chief Medical Officer for Walgreens, also is encouraging people to get the flu vaccine now before the flu becomes more widespread. For the 2013/2014 flu season in the US, there are two types of vaccines available. One provides immunization for two influenza A viruses and an influenza B virus — specifically, an A/California/7/2009 (H1N1) pdm09-like virus; an A(H3N2) virus, similar for antigenic purposes to cell-propagated prototype virus A/Victoria/361/2011; and a virus similar to B/Massachusetts/2/2012. A second type of vaccine provides immunization for two influenza A viruses and two influenza B viruses.

Health
Investigation into Jimmy Savile abuse cases expands to nineteen more hospitals
Sunday, December 1, 2013
Investigations into claims of sexual abuse by the former television presenter, and DJ, Jimmy Savile are expanding to cover an additional 19 hospitals in the United Kingdom, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt announced Friday. Hunt told Parliament, in a written statement, the investigation around Savile's access through the health service are now to report by June next year.
The announcement brings the total number of hospitals being investigated for links with sexual abuse allegations made against Savile to 32. Metropolitan Police are continuing their inquiries into Savile, stating: "Inquiries are ongoing, and we continue to work with the Department of Health. Inquiries into criminal offences are not concluded yet".
About a year after Savile's death in October 2011, ITV broadcast a documentary where several women claim to have been sexually abused by the former TV star. Since then, many more people have come forward with statements claiming abuse by Savile. In addition, a number of other celebrities and public figures have been arrested in connection with claims of sexual abuse and rape.
Solicitor Jessica Standley, whose law firm represents about 70 of Savile's alleged victims, said of the news: "What is concerning me is that the Department of Health have taken until now to include those additional hospitals".
Brian Tooke, a former nurse at the now closed De La Pole Hospital in Willerby, said: "I was appalled when I heard it all — they are vulnerable people and should be protected. I can't understand how, if it is true, he would have been allowed to have free run and exploit vulnerable people."
The nineteen additional hospitals under-investigation are:
Barnet General Hospital
Booth Hall Children's Hospital
De La Pole Hospital
Dryburn Hospital
Hammersmith Hospital
Leavesden Secure Mental Hospital
Marsden Hospital
Maudsley Hospital
North Manchester General Hospital
Odstock Hospital
Pinderfields Hospital
Prestwich Psychiatric Hospital
Queen Victoria Hospital, East Grinstead
Royal Free Hospital, London
Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle
Seacroft Hospital, Leeds
St Mary's Hospital, Carshalton
Whitby Memorial Hospital
Wythenshawe Hospital

Health
New Zealand study finds correlation between church attendance and adolescent obesity
Wednesday, December 4, 2013
A study published this month in Journal of Primary Health Care by researchers at the School of Population Health, University of Auckland found a correlation between adolescent obesity amongst Pacific Islanders (PI) living in New Zealand and church attendance. The results were based on interviews with 2,495 Auckland teenagers attending six different secondary schools, questionnaires given to students, and anthropometric measurements such as body mass index.
While the percentage of non-churchgoing overweight — as opposed to normal or obese — adolescents was the same as churchgoing for Samoans and Cook Island Maori, 1% higher for "other PI" and 7% higher for Tongans, the rate of obese churchgoing adolescents was higher across all groups. Samoan churchgoing teens had an obese percentage of 38% compared to 35% for their non-churchgoing peers. For Cook Island Maori, it was 29% compared to 23%; for Tongans, 37% to 29%; for other PI, 31% to 29%.
The study sought to examine different factors between churchgoing and non-churchgoing populations, finding that Samoan and Tongan churchgoers were more likely than non-churchgoers to have watched four or more hours of television or DVDs on the previous Saturday night. On the last Sunday night, non-churchgoers were more likely to have watched four or more hours across all groups, but the total percentages for churchgoers increased compared to Saturday; particularly, while only 13% of Cook Island Maori and other PI watched four or more hours on Saturday, 30% watched four or more hours on Sunday.
Researchers also found that across all PI groups, non-churchgoing teens were more likely to have less than one serving of fruit a day and were a bit more likely to not eat lunch. With the exception of other PI, non-churchgoing teens were also more likely to rarely eat pies, fast food, and fried food compared to their churchgoing peers. Samoan churchgoers were also statistically more likely to consume soft drinks than their non-churchgoing peers.
The work by Ofa A. Dewes, Robert Scragg, and C. Raina Elley built on existing research regarding obesity in PI communities, and other global studies that have found higher rates of obesity in churchgoing populations. They claim their research in this area is important because as an ethnic group, PI had the highest rates of childhood and adult obesity.

Health
Public health officials advise on rising flu levels in Texas 2013/2014 season
Friday, December 20, 2013
With current flu levels classified as "high" around the state, public health officials in Texas are encouraging citizens to seek vaccination. While many officials anticipated the flu season to peak in January, it has seemingly arrived much earlier in many parts of the state.
Health officials are urging citizens to seek care with their primary doctors, instead of their local hospital emergency rooms. They also recommend that everyone over age six months receive a flu vaccination. Thus far in December, over 450 cases of influenza have been reported in just a small portion of central Texas. Four recent deaths are being blamed on a flu-like illness. Other citizens are also showing signs of the same unknown condition, health officials said.
A nurse for a Texas school system noted during a media interview, "The number one prevention for the flu and cold is hand washing, [from] little kids [up to] big kids." People suffering from the symptoms report fever, and coughing along with headaches and fatigue. One Texas man told Wikinews, "I had the flu just a few weeks ago. It was awful. I was miserable."

Health
Irish anti-smoking campaigner Gerry Collins dies at age 57
Monday, March 3, 2014
Gerry Collins, star of Ireland's QUIT anti-smoking ad campaign, died yesterday morning. He was 57 and had terminal lung cancer.
Collins began smoking at seventeen but had stopped by the time he was diagnosed with throat cancer in 2008. He described the treatment as "horrendous" and was featured by the QUIT campaign in 2011 after defeating the illness. He was later diagnosed again with cancer, this time of the lung and terminal.
"I wish I was an actor," he says in the two TV ads he filmed last year, "because if I was an actor I'd be acting about dying. The reality is that I'm not an actor. I am dying."
A keen sportsman, Collins played football for Dublin and his local Kilmacud Crokes team. As well as TV, he also appeared in radio and Internet ads. The national Health Service Executive credits him with convincing 60,000 people to try to stop smoking.
The Greystones, County Wicklow resident features in two more TV ads due to air this week. In accordance with his wishes they will run as planned despite his death. His family released a statement saying they are "incredibly proud" of him and that he "loved hearing the many stories of people who had quit after seeing his ads or hearing his interviews."
